Fix issue with col oids on old tables when upgrading to >= 6.0.0 (#19262)
crate/crate: docs/appendices/release-notes/6.0.0.rst

Released on 2025-07-17.

.. WARNING::

>     If the cluster contains tables created before :ref:`version_5.5.0`, after
>     upgrading to :ref:`version_6.0.0` certain actions on such tables like
>     deleting partitions, changing settings, rename, swap, etc. can lead to
>     corrupted table metadata which causes all the data of the columns created
>     in versions before:ref:`version_5.5.0` to be shown as ``NULL``. The bug
>     has been fixed in :ref:`version_6.0.6`, so we highly recommend to avoid
>     upgrading to any earlier 6.0.x version.

Reviewer: I think we should be a bit more concrete in not using this version. It's a bit repeating, not sure.
Also we should highlight that even with the bug fix (or any future repair tool), some data may be lost forever

```suggestion
    Do not use this version when upgrading from any previous version 
    containing tables created before :ref:`version_5.5.0`as this may result 
    in data loss!
    
    If the cluster contains tables created before :ref:`version_5.5.0`, after
    upgrading to :ref:`version_6.0.0` certain actions on such tables like
    deleting partitions, changing settings, rename, swap, etc. can lead to
    corrupted table which causes all the data of the columns created
    in versions before :ref:`version_5.5.0` to be shown as ``NULL``. The bug
    has been fixed in :ref:`version_6.0.6`, so we highly recommend to avoid
    upgrading to any earlier 6.0.x version.
    Once already affected by the bug, updated or newly written data may be
    lost forever.
```

Author: For the current state (without considering any repair for the time being),  I would rephrase the last sentence to:
```
Once already affected by the bug, only updated or newly written data is usable, the existing data maybe
lost forever.
```

Reviewer: I thought it the other way around?
- Upgraded, issues something to break it -> existing data is NULL
- Write new data -> new data is visible (updates will only contain the updated cols)
- Upgrade to this fix
- Old data is visible again, new inserts are hidden, updates are still broken, now updated rows will contain NULLS for every column (as the old values were missed out on the update and the new values are stored by OID).
-

Reviewer: Ah this is the 6.x warning, sorry mixed this up with the fix related notes.
But still, we may can recover the old data (with a possible followup tool), but we may not be able to recover newly written data, especially updated data.

Author: As discussed offline, this fix, prevents the bug from happening, but if it happens (users upgraded to an existing 6.x version) the current situation is that they see `NULL` for old data whereas new data is available. Once we come up with some repair operation we can rephrase.

Reviewer: Right, I mixed thing up and somehow thought we also fix the metadata. sorry for my confusion.

.. WARNING::

    Do not use this version when upgrading from any previous version
    containing tables created before :ref:`version_5.5.0` as this may result
    in data loss!

    If the cluster contains tables created before :ref:`version_5.5.0`, after
    upgrading to :ref:`version_6.0.0` certain actions on such tables like
    deleting partitions, changing settings, rename, swap, etc. can lead to
    corrupted table which causes all the data of the columns created
    in versions before :ref:`version_5.5.0` to be shown as ``NULL``. The bug
    has been fixed in :ref:`version_6.0.6`, so we highly recommend to avoid
    upgrading to any earlier 6.0.x version.

    Once already affected by the bug, existing data may be lost forever, while

>     new data (via ``INSERT`` or ``UPDATE``) can be retrieved normally.

Reviewer: UPDATE is the most problematic, it cannot be retrieved normally. Neither with nor without any fix. Only the updated columns could be rescued maybe. Existing column values will be gone forever, even with the fix or any repair tooling.
